[IMP] sales: add discounts section to Pricelists, discounts, and formulas doc (#9597)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/prices/pricing.rst

.. _sales/advanced-price-rules:

Discounts
=========

The :guilabel:`Discounts` feature allows the ability to set a discount or increase the price
on *individual items* in a sales order. This is calculated as a percentage of that product's sales
price.

To access discounts, navigate to the *Sales* app setting page
(:menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`), and click the :guilabel:`Discounts`
checkbox, then click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: pricing/discounts-option.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click the checkbox labeled `Discounts` to activate Discounts.

> To set a discount after discounts have been activated, navigate to the list of sales orders by

Reviewer: Suggestion to be more concise:
```suggestion
After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation or sales order by
```

> going to :menuselection:`Orders --> Orders` at the top of the page. Once there, click on the

Reviewer: Good practice to add in the app name at the beginning, even if we're in the app already.
This is because documentation readers tend to skim and also read content out of order, so if they land  here, they get the full address without having to look for context clues.

```suggestion
going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders` at the top of the page. Once there, click on the
```

...or if you consider the previous feedback around quotations (vs. sales orders)
```suggestion
going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` at the top of the page. Once there, click on the
```

desired sales order from the list.

> In the :guilabel:`Order Lines` section of the sales order form, a new heading will appear labeled

Reviewer: - **Order lines** doesn't get a GUI I don't think, as it's not text or a label on the UI.
- sales order --> quotation (based on previous comment)
- heading --> column heading (specificity)

```suggestion
In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading will appear labeled
```

> :guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual items. Enter the desired

Reviewer: Nitpick around specificity
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired
```

discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the sales order

> total at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: While discounts can indeed be added to sales orders before the customer is invoiced, they're usually added to quotations first as a means to incentivize a deal to close faster.

Consider the following changes to capture the customer's use case more accurately:
- switching "sales order" to "quote" or "quotation" in this + following sections
- add a **Tip** admonition block to say discounts can be added to sales orders as well before invoicing a customer.

> total at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: Can GUI this I think, since it's a label at the bottom of the quotation form, wdyt?
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.
```

Author: I agree, I think that's more consistent.

> After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation or sales order by
> going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders` at the top of the page. Once there, click on the
> desired sales order from the list.
> 
> In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading will appear labeled
> :guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired
> discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the sales order
> :guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.

Author: ```suggestion
After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation by
going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` at the top of the page. Once there, click on the
desired quote from the list.

In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading will appear labeled
:guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired
discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the quote
:guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.

.. tip::
   A discount can also be added directly to a sales order in the same way. Navigate to
   :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`, click on the desired sales order, and add the
   discount to :guilabel:`Disc.%` as described above.
```

> .. image:: pricing/discount-on-sales-order.png

Reviewer: might be slightly too small
can do 767px-933px in HD (~125% zoom)

   :align: center
   :alt: The ::guilabel:`Dis.%` heading will now appear in ::guilabel:`Order Lines`

> .. tip::

Reviewer: nice 👍

> .. _sales/advanced-price-rules:

Reviewer 2: This custom anchor needs to be moved, since this new **Discounts** section now comes before the **Advanced price rules** section. Please move the anchor to it's section (**Advanced price rules**).

May as well add an anchor for Discounts, in case you (or others) want to reference this brand new section!
```suggestion
.. _sales/discounts:
```

Discounts
=========

> The :guilabel:`Discounts` feature allows the ability to set a discount or increase the price
> on *individual items* in a sales order. This is calculated as a percentage of that product's sales
> price.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick– :guilabel:s should only be placed on text that is present on the current UI– and since the navigation instruction comes later, we can use italics to refer to the feature :)
```suggestion
The *Discounts* feature allows the ability to set a discount or increase the price on *individual
items* in a sales order. This is calculated as a percentage of that product's sales price.
```

> To access discounts, navigate to the *Sales* app setting page
> (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Settings`), and click the :guilabel:`Discounts`
> checkbox, then click :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer 2: Early line break (you can break a line inside a :menuselection: anywhere there is a space) :)

For example:
```rst
(:menuselection:❌`Sales app -->✅Configuration --> Settings`)
```

```suggestion
To access discounts, navigate to the *Sales* app setting page (:menuselection:`Sales app -->
Configuration --> Settings`), and click the :guilabel:`Discounts` checkbox, then click
:guilabel:`Save`.
```

.. image:: pricing/discounts-option.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Click the checkbox labeled `Discounts` to activate Discounts.

Reviewer 2: While the attention to detail is appreciated, no formatting in alt tags please. Alt tags should always contain plain text :)
```suggestion
   :alt: Click the checkbox labeled Discounts to activate Discounts.
```

> After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation by
> going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` at the top of the page. Once there, click on the
> desired quote from the list.

Reviewer 2: Line over 100 chars, just need to break lines to keep a consistent line length. This just makes reviewing docs easier when line length is consistent :)
```suggestion
After the setting has been activated, navigate to the desired quotation by going to
:menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` at the top of the page. Once there, click on
the desired quote from the list.
```

In the order lines section of the quotation form, a new column heading will appear labeled
:guilabel:`Disc.%`. This column is used to set discounts on individual line items. Enter the desired
discount for each product line and the new price will automatically be calculated in the quote
:guilabel:`Total` at the bottom of the page.

.. tip::
   A discount can also be added directly to a sales order in the same way. Navigate to
   :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`, click on the desired sales order, and add the
   discount to :guilabel:`Disc.%` as described above.

.. image:: pricing/discount-on-sales-order.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The ::guilabel:`Dis.%` heading will now appear in ::guilabel:`Order Lines`

Reviewer 2: No text formatting in alt tag :)

Oh– and nitpick please add periods at the end of alt tags, thank you!
```suggestion
   :alt: The Dis.% heading will now appear in Order Lines.
```

.. tip::
   Positive values for :guilabel:`Disc.%` will apply a *discount*, while negative values can be
   used to *increase* the price.

> Advanced price rules

Reviewer 2: Moved custom anchor :)
```suggestion
.. _sales/advanced-price-rules:

Advanced price rules
```
